Docs-7550 basic alerts and retrofit alerts to advanced alerts (#135)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/alerts-config.adoc

Depending on your subscription level, you can configure different types of alerts:

* Basic alerts for servers and Mule apps
+

> Limit: Up to 50 for users who do not have a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. If you have a Titanium subscription, the limit is 100 basic alerts, but the limit increases for each vCore. For complete details about subscriptions, contact your customer support representative. See also https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Anypoint Platform pricing].

Reviewer: Instead of saying "but the limit increases for each vCore", I'd suggest "and the limits raise to higher levels as more vCores are purchased."

Author: ```suggestion
Limit per organization: Up to 50 for users who do not have a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. If you have a Titanium subscription, the limit is 100 basic alerts, and the limits increase as you purchase more vCores. For complete details about subscriptions, contact your customer support representative. See also https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Anypoint Platform pricing].
```

> Limit: Up to 50 for users who do not have a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. If you have a Titanium subscription, the limit is 100 basic alerts, but the limit increases for each vCore. For complete details about subscriptions, contact your customer support representative. See also https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Anypoint Platform pricing].

Reviewer: In addition, we should clarify the limit is per organization.

> Limit per organization: Up to 50 basic alerts for users who do not have a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. If you have a Titanium subscription, the limit is 100 basic alerts, and the limits increase as you purchase more vCores. For complete details about subscriptions, contact your customer support representative. See also https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Anypoint Platform pricing].

Reviewer 2: For parallelism and scannability, suggest breaking after value:
```suggestion
Limit per organization: Up to 50 basic alerts for users who do not have a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. +
If you have a Titanium subscription, the limit is 100 basic alerts, and the limits increase as you purchase more vCores. For complete details about subscriptions, contact your customer support representative. See also https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Anypoint Platform pricing].
```

* Advanced alerts for graphs in custom dashboards in Anypoint Monitoring
+

> Limit: Up to 20 alerts per organization.

Author: ```suggestion
Limit per organization: Up to 20 advanced alerts.
```

+

> Note that thresholds are checked every 5 minutes. The evaluated query is the average value of the metric in the last 5 minutes. The evaluated metric is the one referenced in the General tab for the graph. If the value is above the threshold, the alert is triggered. The alert is triggered only if the alert state changes (from OK state to Alerting state or vice versa).

Reviewer 3: If the value is above the threshold, the alert is triggered.
Alerts can be triggered when the value is below the threshold, too.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that thresholds are checked every 5 minutes. The evaluated query is the average value of the metric in the last 5 minutes. The evaluated metric is the one referenced in the *General* tab for the graph. If the value passes the threshold, the advanced alert is triggered. The advanced alert is triggered only if the alert state changes (from `OK` state to `Alerting` state or vice versa).
```

* Operational alerts for APIs through API Manager
* Operational alerts for the runtime through Runtime Manager

[[basic-alerts]]
== Set up Basic Alerts for Servers and Mule Apps

You can set up basic alerts to trigger email notifications when a metric you are measuring reaches a specified threshold.

You can create basic alerts for the following metrics for servers or Mule apps:

> * For servers:

Reviewer 4: I also recommend we use the exact same title as the ones used for the charts, as in:

CPU % utilization
Heap used
Thread count

> * For servers:

Author: ```suggestion
* For on-premises servers and CloudHub apps:
```

> * For servers:

Author: @jiang-wu I have to use whatever is in the UI.

> ** CPU utilization

Reviewer 5: Do we want to provide information regarding the alert threshold unit for each of these metrics. For example, CPU and Memory Utilization, the unit is %

Author: This is in the UI. Not sure it's particularly helpful to list it here.

Reviewer 2: resolved?

** Memory utilization
** Thread count

> * For Mule apps:

Reviewer 3: Missing metrics for applications:
- CPU utilization
- Memory utilization
- Thread count

Reviewer 6: The ones that Pablo mentions are for RTF & CH apps, not Hybrid apps

Reviewer 7: Those three are for CloudHub and RTF applications only

> * For Mule apps:

Author: ```suggestion
* For on-premises, Runtime Fabric, and CloudHub apps:
```

> Note that thresholds are checked every 5 minutes. The evaluated query is the average value of the metric in the last 5 minutes. The evaluated metric is the one referenced in the *General* tab for the graph. If the value passes the threshold, the advanced alert is triggered. The advanced alert is triggered only if the alert state changes (from `OK` state to `Alerting` state or vice versa).

Reviewer 2: Do we need both of the first two sentences?
Will use of both "evaluated query" and "evaluated metric" be confusing along with "value" and "metric"? Evaluate whether each of these terms is distinct in this context; I am not sure, but I am a naive enduser....

Author: This is legacy text. I will check.

> You can set up basic alerts to trigger email notifications when a metric you are measuring passes a specified threshold.

Reviewer 2: Ah! "email notifications" is better than "notifications to email" earlier....

Author: Implementing this everywhere. THANK YOU. So much more concise...

> You can set up basic alerts to trigger email notifications when a metric you are measuring reaches a specified threshold.

Author: ```suggestion
You can set up basic alerts to trigger email notifications when a metric you are measuring passes a specified threshold.
```

** Message count
** Message error count
** Message response time

=== Configure a Basic Alert

When you create a basic alert, you can select a source for the basic alert, configure the condition under which the basic alert is triggered, and specify which email addresses receive notifications for basic alert triggers.

To create a basic alert:

. Navigate to Anypoint Monitoring.
. Click the *Alerts* tab.
. Click the *+ New Alerts* button.
. Click *Basic alert*.

> . In the *Add basic alert* window, enter the alert name, alert source, alert condition, and alert recipients for your basic alert.

Reviewer 3: alert source // alert source type
Add: environment name, resource name (for apps) or server name (for server)

Reviewer 6: Alert recipients is not required, maybe we can mention it here

Author: ```suggestion
. In the *Add basic alert* window, enter the information required to create your basic alert. Note that requirements change depending on the source type you select.
```

> === Configure a Basic Alert

Reviewer 2: So...we are using all three of "set up," "configure," and "create."
Is this intentional?
SHOULD we?

Author: Hm, should probably be "create."

> . In the *Add basic alert* window, enter the information required to create your basic alert. Note that requirements change depending on the source type you select.

Reviewer 2: ditto re. our bullet style:
```suggestion
. In the *Add basic alert* window, enter the information required to create your basic alert. +
Note that requirements change depending on the source type you select.
```

. Click *Save*.

image::basic-alerts-config.png[Configure a Basic Alert]

[[advanced-alerts]]
== Set up Advanced Alerts for Graphs in Custom Dashboards

*https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium Subscription Required]*

> You can set up advanced alerts to trigger email notifications when a data point you are measuring (`JVM - CPU % Utilization`) exceeds a specified threshold. These advanced alerts are listed in the *Alerts* page in Anypoint Monitoring.

Reviewer 3: exceeds a specified threshold
Alerts can be triggered by values above or below a certain threshold.

Author: ```suggestion
You can set up advanced alerts to trigger email notifications when a data point you are measuring (`JVM - CPU % Utilization`) passes a specified threshold. These advanced alerts are listed in the *Alerts* page in Anypoint Monitoring.
```

//ANYPOINT MONITORING ALERTS

> include::partial$include-alerts-config.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Author: Reviewers: `include-alerts-config.adoc` goes here.

== Set Up API and Runtime Alerts

> From the Alerts feature in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link out to configuration pages for API and runtime alerts.

Author: ```suggestion
From the Alerts feature in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link out to configuration pages for API and Runtime alerts.
```

> == Set Up API and Runtime Alerts

Reviewer 2: Earlier titles use "Set up" capitalization, which Capitalize My Title says is correct...but I had to look it up. 
I thought that "Set Up" was correct, as a compound verb...which is why I sometimes prefer "configure" to "set up."
Also...Global English. 
My students in Japan has a lot of trouble with these colocations: Why SET up but TAKE down? Why PUT on but TAKE off?

Author: ```suggestion
== Configure API Manager and Runtime Manager Alerts
```

> From the Alerts feature in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link out to configuration pages for API and Runtime alerts.

Reviewer 2: Is "Alerts feature" capitalized because we have established this as a proper noun, and is it not bold because it does not actually appear in the UI?
Sigh....

Reviewer 2: Also...I would not use "link out," just "link."
And runtime vs. Mule.
```suggestion
From the alerts feature in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link to configuration pages for API and runtime alerts.
```

Author: ```suggestion
From the *Alerts* page in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link to configuration pages for API Manager and Runtime Manager alerts.
```

* Advanced alerts for graphs in custom dashboards in Anypoint Monitoring
+
Limit per organization: Up to 20 advanced alerts.
+
Note that thresholds are checked every 5 minutes. The evaluated query is the average value of the metric in the last 5 minutes. The evaluated metric is the one referenced in the *General* tab for the graph. If the value passes the threshold, the advanced alert is triggered. The advanced alert is triggered only if the alert state changes (from `OK` state to `Alerting` state or vice versa).
* Operational alerts for APIs through API Manager
* Operational alerts for the runtime through Runtime Manager

[[basic-alerts]]
== Set up Basic Alerts for Servers and Mule Apps

You can set up basic alerts to trigger email notifications when a metric you are measuring passes a specified threshold.

You can create basic alerts for the following metrics for servers or Mule apps:

* For on-premises servers and CloudHub apps:
** CPU utilization
** Memory utilization
** Thread count
* For on-premises, Runtime Fabric, and CloudHub apps:
** Message count
** Message error count
** Message response time

> === Configure a Basic Alert

Author: ```suggestion
=== Create a Basic Alert
```

To create a basic alert:

. Navigate to Anypoint Monitoring.
. Click the *Alerts* tab.
. Click the *+ New Alerts* button.
. Click *Basic alert*.
. In the *Add basic alert* window, enter the alert name, alert source, alert condition, and alert recipients for your basic alert.
. Click *Save*.

image::basic-alerts-config.png[Configure a Basic Alert]

[[advanced-alerts]]
== Set up Advanced Alerts for Graphs in Custom Dashboards

*https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium Subscription Required]*

You can set up advanced alerts to trigger email notifications when a data point you are measuring (`JVM - CPU % Utilization`) exceeds a specified threshold. These advanced alerts are listed in the *Alerts* page in Anypoint Monitoring.

//ANYPOINT MONITORING ALERTS
include::partial$include-alerts-config.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Set Up API and Runtime Alerts

From the Alerts feature in Anypoint Monitoring, you can link out to configuration pages for API and runtime alerts.

Depending on your subscription level:

> * If no alerts are set up, you might see links for API and runtime alert setup, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
* If no alerts are set up, you might see links for API and Runtime alert setup, for example:
```

+
image::alerts-setup-premium.png[Alert Setup Guidance]

> == Add Alerts

Author: This doesn't seem to be exactly true anymore. What should go here instead?

> You can use the *+ New alert* button to link out to API Manager and Runtime Manager alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the *+ New alert* button to link to API Manager and Runtime Manager alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.
```

> Once alerts are listed on your *Alerts* page, you can use *Add Alerts* to link out to API and Runtime Alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
Once alerts are listed on your *Alerts* page, you can use *Add Alerts* to link out to API Manager and Runtime Manager alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.
```

> Once alerts are listed on your *Alerts* page, you can use *Add Alerts* to link out to API Manager and Runtime Manager alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the *+ New alert* button to link out to API Manager and Runtime Manager alert configuration pages. You can also get basic instructions for configuring alerts for a chart (widget) in a custom dashboard.
```
